this video is partly inspired by fellow
youtuber counterpoints who is currently
leading the world in a discussion
reflecting on what's called cancel
culture in the year 2020 I wonder if
anyone will still use that term just
five years from now maybe this will be
forgotten if people look back and watch
this video in the very near future and
it's also inspired by the fact that the
moment I have really bad cold this is
now January 3rd I've had a cold since
December 17th and it has massively
impaired my mental as well as physical
abilities but I really resent the
impairment of my mental abilities
somewhat more um I think that conjure
points and most of the other people
discussing this have missed the most
fundamental source of what we now call
cancel culture and that is the
organisation of Education in the Western
world in the Western english-speaking
world almost all education is punitive
in nature and it's designed on the basis
of a phony competition that's supposedly
measuring your innate capabilities so
the teacher's job is to put all students
at the same starting line to impose the
same finishing line and then to judge
them to rank their abilities in order
based on how they perform on the
obstacle course along the way Western
education system is fundamentally not
about learning it's not about
improvement it's not about gaining the
ability to do something regardless of
how long it may take you that it may
take one person more time than another
person to learn how to do algebra but if
the point were to actually produce
competence in algebra then you wouldn't
design the education system so it's like
hey guys guess what everyone here has
two months
to learn how to do algebra to this
standard and then at the end of those
two months we're gonna say you get an A
plus you get a B you get a C you get a D
and you fail and that's the point of
Education oh why why did I do this
because we have the illusion that what
you're measuring is your innate inborn
talent for algebra and you know what you
may be measuring you may be measuring
who had a cold during those two months
just coming down with the common cold
can mean that your academic performance
is terrible for a crucial period of 30
days and the way our system is set up
that can then impact your academic
record for the rest of your life and it
can also result in you thinking oh I'm
I'm bad at math like I innately lack the
talent to do math now of course there
are a million other sources of bias and
skew that creep into education like some
people have parents who help them learn
how to do math at home and some don't
some people speak English as their first
language and some don't all these
advantages and disadvantages
socio-economic and otherwise right but
what I'm questioning here is the format
of Education itself and the role of the
teacher as being essentially punitive so
contra points raised the interesting
point that cancel' culture is inimical
to the process of people learning from
their mistakes like somebody says
something racist or somebody says
something insensitive
maybe someone says something that's
really offensive about history but they
didn't realize how offensive it was we
had a politician in Canada who said some
offensive things about the Holocaust and
and she claimed she didn't even like she
didn't know what the Holocaust was that
she was that ignorant she didn't even
know what a concentration camp wasn't
this kind of thing the role of the
teacher in the education system again is
not to help people improve and reach
their goal it's to punish them for
failing to reach the finish line as fast
as other people who are in the same race
right
a contrast to this that is not to ideal
or idealistic is to look at the way
skills are gained in military education
so I'm gonna describe what I mean here
obviously this is an all education in
the military but it's it's a significant
part of it I once heard a man describing
how in the Navy they trained people to
put out a fire on the deck of a ship and
it's not it's not the case they have the
starting line for everyone and a finish
line for everyone then they decide okay
you're naturally talented at putting out
fires and you're not it's not the point
the point is not to grade people on how
well they can put it afire the point is
to train each and every one of those men
to the point where they have mastery of
that set of skills so that in a
life-and-death situation they will put
out a fire on the deck of a ship as best
as they possibly can and as best as any
human being can so you know what the
first and most obvious difference is
from education as we have it in our
primary schools high schools
universities in the Western world there
is no fixed finish line you can keep
doing the course for as long as it takes
so if there's a test where you know they
set up a phony fire or they have a drill
obviously right and you come in and you
do that drill again and again and again
until you basically get a grade of a
hundred percent like 80 percent isn't
good enough right and if that if one
person does that in three months they
happen to be talented or they maybe they
have some prior education that really
let them figure out you can imagine you
have to you have to memorize the
different types of hoses and fasteners
there are a certain level of book
learning but a lot of its just manual
skill maybe one person studies hard
works hard and they completely master
how to put out a fire in three months so
they've finished that training module
great they move on but if someone else
needs six months if someone else needs
nine months they're gonna keep getting
that repetition they're gonna go through
that learning process again and again
and again until completion
I grew up in downtown Toronto we had
immigrants from every part of the world
in the school I went to I didn't I
didn't go to a rich people's school at
that time we had a lot of immigrants
from Chile Chilean refugees they weren't
really immigrants they were refugees we
had kids from Jamaica we had a lot of
kids at that time from actually Greece
okay a couple Koreans me do it I don't
remember how to Chinese actually
remember Koreans all right these kids
their parents didn't speak English you
know what is the point of teaching grade
six English primary school level English
is the point just to evaluate Oh Oh
guess what
big surprise the kid who arrived here as
a refugee from Chile can't write a book
report at the same level of skill as the
kid his first language is English too
both of his parents speak English
fluently and maybe the parents help him
with his homework Wow big surprise this
kid gets an A+ and this kid gets a
d-plus or a c-minus and that kid had to
work ten times as hard for the same
outcome know if fundamentally the point
is to train all of these kids so they
can get a hundred percent if the point
is them to actually have the skill the
ability to research and write a book
report at a grade 6 level then you will
help those kids you will work with those
kids for as long as it takes and quite
likely the kid who just arrived here
from Chile the kid who just arrived here
from Korea even the Greeks the guys who
derive their English was not that good
whatever the new immigrants who arrived
in the class maybe they need to teach
keep taking the course for an extra one
month two months in terms maybe there
needs to be flexibility to that finish
line right but the role of the teacher
in being punitive in saying no you pass
you fail you're good you're bad you're
talented and you're not it's
fundamentally counterproductive
and these people who are typically on
the left wing we're gonna come back this
they're not all left-wing these people
who are stereotypically on the left wing
playing the game
of counterculture what the position they
think they're in is the role of the
schoolmaster is the role of the
schoolteacher grading and evaluating
others punitive ly assessing the
performance of others not helping them
not educating them all right now its
heart the role of a teacher it's hard
it's got to come from a certain sort of
place of love and sympathy and concern
where you actually say to a kid and the
kid the kid may not have good intentions
the kid may be lazy say this kid look I
know you're not really motivated to
write the best book report you can but
I've got to work with you I got to help
you you got to work with me let's take
as much time as this needs let's
actually develop this so you have this
competence and then if you want to later
you can go on to university or whatever
it is you do with this confidence but
where it's actually about the learning
outcome okay now politically I mean when
I deal with left-wing people a lot of
the time they have real misconceptions
about economics the most popular
misconception I encounter on the left
wing and I'm far to left myself are left
wingers who believe that money is
infinite left wingers who dogmatically
believe there is no such thing as a debt
problem there's no such thing as a debt
crisis that it's just impossible for the
government to spend too much money and
go bankrupt okay now I don't I don't
cancel those people I don't sit back and
say okay well I'm gonna judge you like
you you have some innate lack of talent
for economics
all right the reality is what I have to
try to do is help those people and you
know yes I try to use Socratic method I
try to use real-world examples you know
have you heard of this that and the
other historical example where countries
really do go bankrupt where you know
life for everyone becomes miserable
because the public sector the government
mismanaged its debt spend too much money
and then things close and it's hard it's
got to come from a place of love and
sympathy and you got to ask the other
person to sympathize with you and and
they may not recognize
as you as a teacher they may not
recognize you as having good intentions
they may not want to recognize that you
know something they don't know but I
mean where does this stuff come from
ultimately it may just be that they were
born in circumstances with their own
parents that they grew up ignorant or
even with the kind of self-righteous
ignorance on this topic right and
ultimately it may be just as arbitrary
as when you happen to have a cold when
you happened to come down with the flu
and you missed that month's lessons in
economics class and you never caught up
we all struggle with these intellectual
inequalities that are arbitrary we're
all burdened with it and our system of
Education trains us to regard those
inequalities as innate and to judge one
another as if these were ethical
characteristics part and parcel of who
we are as human beings that we can never
change
all right the fact that your parents
were racist doesn't mean you have to be
racist the fact that you grew up racist
doesn't mean you have to be racist and
you know a more nuanced example may be
the fact that your parents raised you
with lies about American Indians Native
people First Nations
you know the Iroquois the achieve way
the mohawk most white people grew up
with lies about that not really knowing
the history of where America comes from
European colonization and Jensen most of
us grew up with lies whether your
parents grandparents or schoolteacher
told you okay the fact that you have
false information and Koch aid into into
you and you may have a bad attitude
towards that information and you may not
want to learn and you may not have the
curiosity of challenging yourself okay
the good news is there is no finish line
but death as long as you're alive you
can reach out to others and
can learn and others if they know what
it truly means to be a teacher they can
reach out and they can teach you